add span stacktrace config option (#1414)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib: span-stacktrace/README.md

### Manual SDK setup

Here is an example registration of `StackTraceSpanProcessor` to capture stack trace for all
the spans that have a duration >= 1 ms. The spans that have an `ignorespan` string attribute
will be ignored.

```java
InMemorySpanExporter spansExporter = InMemorySpanExporter.create();
SpanProcessor exportProcessor = SimpleSpanProcessor.create(spansExporter);

Map<String, String> configMap = new HashMap<>();

> configMap.put("otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration", "1ms");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configMap.put("otel.java.experimental.span-stacktrace.min.duration", "1ms");
```

Reviewer 2: Is this really needed?

Author: it's only necessary if you want to override the default, but that's optional if you think it's simpler let's remove it.

Author: Sorry I completely misread the discussion here, so please ignore my previous msg.

There are quite a few other config options patterns in the contrib repo (non-exhaustive list)
- `otel.jmx.*` used by the current JMX gatherer, but unlikely to conflict with anything due to the nature of the gatherer.
- `otel.inferred.spans.*` for inferred spans, which means we would have to migrate those for consistency
- `otel.java.experimental.*` pattern used only by the baggage to span attribute module until we also use it here.

So it seems that so far the `otel.<feature>` where `<feature>` somehow matches the module name is the most common option.

What I don't like with the `experimental` is that is puts a "stability/maturity" semantic into the configuration. For example, the inferred spans are quite mature because we migrated it from our own agent.

Author: There are rules defined or about to be defined in semantic conventions for attribute and metric names, could we make most config options also fit the existing ones ?

For example, despite the shared ownership of contrib repo, would it make sense to include those in the documentation for Java https://opentelemetry.io/docs/languages/java/configuration/, it already contains:
- general SDK configuration with implementation details for Java with `otel.` prefix
- Java specific configuration for the SDK and Instrumentation (with the `otel.java.` prefix

With that scheme, I think that maybe having a `otel.java.<feature>.` pattern as prefix for contrib would be nice because:
- we can have a clear list of features weither they are in contrib or not (with appropriate links)
- from the person in charge of configuration, the fact it's part of contrib is an implementation detail, if the feature is later moved to a separate artifact is not relevant to how it's configured.

Author: After discussing this on our side (Elastic), we think we should separate this discussion about config and feature maturity from this PR, we will follow-up in future Java SIG meetings.

As a consequence, for now we'll just update it to `otel.java.experimental.span-stacktrace.min.duration` and we can enhance it later.

ConfigProperties config = DefaultConfigProperties.createFromMap(configMap);

Predicate<ReadableSpan> filterPredicate = readableSpan -> {
  if(readableSpan.getAttribute(AttributeKey.stringKey("ignorespan")) != null){
    return false;
  }
  return true;
};
SdkTracerProvider tracerProvider = SdkTracerProvider.builder()
    .addSpanProcessor(new StackTraceSpanProcessor(exportProcessor, config, filterPredicate))
    .build();

OpenTelemetrySdk sdk = OpenTelemetrySdk.builder().setTracerProvider(tracerProvider).build();
```

### Configuration

> The `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` configuration option (defaults to 5ms) allows to configure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` configuration option (defaults to 5ms) allows configuring
```

> The `otel.java.experimental.span-stacktrace.min.duration` configuration option (defaults to 5ms) allows configuring

Author: I'm fine to remove `-` and replace it with `.`, for now we just need to have one configuration option to start, we will of course need to revise this later when making this feature stable.

I think the suggestion to use `-` in the feature name came from what we currently have for `otel.java.experimental.span-attributes.copy-from-baggage.include` in the [baggage-processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-contrib/tree/main/baggage-processor), which by the way isn't really consistent as we have `otel.java.experimental.span-attributes` as prefix for a module named `baggage-processor`.

As long as things are not marked as stable, I think those minor inconsistencies are fine and acceptable, especially in the contrib repo where things are mostly alpha.

-----

However we probably need to have some proper definition somewhere about those configuration options, for example to at least define what are the main namespaces like `otel.java.*`, `otel.javaagent.*` or `otel.java.experimental.*` or even define a global registry with all the possible options to ensure there isn't any conflict between all the repositories. Also, this might be something also happening in other platforms & otel components SIGs.

However that's definitely something that will take a while and should be covered separately, and I know that it sounds like "let's start another SIG about configuration options" :smile: .

> The `otel.java.experimental.span-stacktrace.min.duration` configuration option (defaults to 5ms) allows configuring

Reviewer 3: Ha - well unfortunately I doubt we'll get any additional clarity around property naming anytime soon. There's already a dedicated config sig (which I lead), focussing on building out [declarative configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/tree/main/specification/configuration#declarative-configuration) which aims to replace the system property / env var config scheme as the dominant mechanism for configuration. That's where all the configuration effort is being spent these days.

I think you're right to stick with precedents that already exist in this repo - I wasn't aware of those.

OpenTelemetrySdk sdk = OpenTelemetrySdk.builder().setTracerProvider(tracerProvider).build();
```

### Configuration

Even if autoconfiguration is not yet supported, usages of this module must use the

> `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` configuration option (in nanoseconds, defaults to 5ms) to

Reviewer 4: nanoseconds, is that intended?

Author: Yes, the span duration (latency) is already measured in nanoseconds so it's simpler to keep the same unit.

Author: In fact here when the value is parsed as `java.time.Duration` from configuration it can be set to any unit, so only the default value unit needs to be specified.

OpenTelemetrySdk sdk = OpenTelemetrySdk.builder().setTracerProvider(tracerProvider).build();
```

### Configuration

Even if autoconfiguration is not yet supported, usages of this module must use the
`otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` configuration option (defaults to 5ms) to
allow consistent configuration across usages.

The following constants are provided as a convenience:

- `StackTraceSpanProcessor.CONFIG_MIN_DURATION`
- `StackTraceSpanProcessor.CONFIG_MIN_DURATION_DEFAULT`

> It means default this feature will capture a stacktrace for all spans that last 5ms or more,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means the default for this feature will capture a stacktrace for all spans that last 5ms or more,
```

disabling it must be allowed by setting a negative value to `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration`.

> Setting `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` to zero means stacktrace will be captured for all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` to zero means a stacktrace will be captured for all
```

> Setting `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` to zero means a stacktrace will be captured for all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` to zero means a stacktrace will be captured for every
```

> Setting `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` to zero means a stacktrace will be captured for all
> spans.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting `otel.span.stacktrace.min.duration` to zero means a stacktrace will be captured with every
span.
```

> spans without span duration limit.

Reviewer 2: what do you mean by `without span duration limit`?

Author: I mean that every span will have a stack trace without first checking the span duration to know if the stack trace overhead is worth it.

Reviewer 2: so every span. The additional words seem to be irrelevant? If you agree ...
```suggestion
spans.
```
